Let us implement compound
states into our application.
So this pause and playing state now
need to be children of the ready state.
And so we could add the ready
state right over here.
And then we could move the paused and
playing state right into it.
So, if I have a states object in here,
we could just copy and paste,
if I have everything selected, the pause
and playing state right into there.
So now this is the overall structure.
We have a ready state, and the ready state
has two child states, paused and playing.
And so we need to specify
an initial state, too, so
initial, so just have it playing,
and there we go.
That is all it takes to move
things into a parent state.
So now you're going to see that
the application will continue to work,
hopefully if I don't speak too soon,
compound states.
And so it says invalid transition
definition for state node loading.
Child state pause does
not exist on machine.
So let's debug that.
We have loading and
it goes to target paused.
So, I forgot, we have to add
this to the ready state instead,
at least the error
message was clear enough.
And so now we're in the ready state, which
immediately goes to playing, not paused.
And so now we can just click play,
paused over here, and yeah.
So a couple things to keep in mind, too,
is that when we're doing stuff in, for
example, rendering based
on what the state value is,
there is a tendency to sort of tie this
directly to the machine structure.
So, if we want to know whether we're
in the playing or paused state,
we might have something like, const
isPlaying = states.matches('playing').
And so this would have worked
prior to the refactor,
where we moved everything
to a ready state.
But now we have to change this to
state.matches(),
because this is the new structure.
And so you might be looking at this and
thinking, isn't that a little bit fragile?
And the answer is yes, and that's why
XState has introduced tags as well.
So instead of trying to determine the
exact structure of the machine in order
to match the state against that,
we could introduce tags in states.
So I could just call this playing.
And down here we could instead, say,
state.hastag('playing').
Which will return true or
false if that tag matches one
of the state nodes that
are active in the state.
And so this is going to work whether
we have playing as a parent state,
or, sorry, this is gonna work whether
we have playing as a top-level state or
as a child state of a parent state.
And so it's pretty refactor-proof, and
it's a good way of abstracting your
machine implementation even further.
So, one question in the chat, what
differences do we get from tags over meta?
And so, yeah,
I'll quickly talk about meta, so
each state can actually have
meta information as well.
For example, in playing,
I could have meta,
and summary, the song is playing.
And then when we console.log this state,
Now you're going to see in the meta,
we have a pretty flat structure where
we have the full ID of the song, or
sorry, of the state, and we have
the metadata that we added to that state.
So we have this text that says,
the song is playing,
under the summary property
that we provided.
So you can use this instead of tags,
but meta is really meant not for
identifying which states are active,
which is what tags are for,
but really for
adding any extra metadata to those states.
And this is useful, for example,
if you want to generate documentation or
have some descriptive parameters for
testing, and other things, too.
You can even use meta for
actually rendering parts of your UI
without having to hard code all of it.
You could just put it directly in meta.
There's a lot of use cases for that, but
they are conceptually different things.
Other than using tags,
what are some of the best practices for
maintaining deeply nested compound
states in large machines?
And I would say that the first
thing is that you should
try not to prematurely add
these compound states.
Try to keep your machine as
flat as possible until it makes
sense to have these compound states.
So you could use tags to sort of, at least
form a state-level perspective, flatten
the structure of the machine so that you
only have to read based on the tags.
You could also use meta for
that same thing.
And you could also target using IDs if
you need to cross ancestor boundaries.
So if this state needs to
target this loading state,
then you could do that by using
that ID that you provide.
But in general, if you see that your
machine is getting a little too big,
then you could, and
we'll talk about this later, but
you could split it up
into different actors.
In the same way that you would just split
a mega function up into smaller functions.
And yeah, someone mentioned in the chat,
too, that I guess that's where actors and
nested state machines come in.
Yep, that's absolutely correct.